#!/usr/bin/ruby -w
$:.unshift File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), '..', 'lib')

require 'distem'
require 'optparse'
require 'pp'
require 'pathname'

USAGE="Usage: #{$0} --cordinator host=HOSTNAME,[port=PORT]] option"

def sub_opts_to_hash(sub_opts)
  return Hash[*sub_opts.split(',').collect { |sub| sub.scan(/(.*)=(.*)/) }.flatten]
end

def check_opts(opt, subopts, required, optional)
  required.each { |r|
    if not subopts.has_key?(r)
      puts "The mandatory sub-option #{r} must be set with --#{opt}"
      return false
    end
  }
  subopts.each_key { |k|
    if not (required.include?(k) || optional.include?(k))
      puts "The sub-option #{k} is not supported with --#{opt}"
      return false
    end
  }
  return true
end

options = {}
options['f_options'] = []
options['host'] = 'localhost'
options['port'] = 4567
options['format'] = nil
options['file'] = nil
options['pnode'] = nil
options['vnode'] = nil
options['command'] = nil
options['user'] = 'root'
options['src'] = nil
options['dest'] = nil
options['vnetwork'] = nil
options['viface'] = nil
options['address'] = nil
options['latency'] = nil
options['bw'] = nil
options['direction'] = nil
options['corenb'] = nil
options['cpu_speed'] = 1
options['rootfs' ] = nil
options['vnetsrc' ] = nil
options['vnetdest' ] = nil
options['gateway' ] = nil
options['configfile'] = nil

optparse = OptionParser.new(USAGE) do |opts|
  opts.on('-h', '--help', 'Display this screen' ) do
    puts opts
    exit
  end
  opts.on(
    '--coordinator host=HOST[,port=PORT]',
    'Specify the HOST and the PORT of the coordinator'
  ) do |str|
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('coordinator', h, ['host'], ['port'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--init-pnode PNODE',
    'Init the physical node PNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'init_pnode'
    options['pnode'] = str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--create-vnode vnode=VNODE,rootfs=FILE[,pnode=PNODE]',
    'Create the virtual node VNODE deploying FILE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'create_vnode'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('create-vnode', h, ['vnode','rootfs'], ['pnode'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--start-vnode VNODE',
    'Start the virtual node VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'start_vnode'
    options['vnode'] = str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--stop-vnode VNODE',
    'Stop the virtual node VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'stop_vnode'
    options['vnode'] = str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--remove-vnode [VNODE]',
    'Remove VNODE or all the vnodes if VNODE is not specified'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'remove_vnode'
    options['vnode'] = str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--shell vnode=VNODE[,user=USER]',
    'Open a shell on VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'shell'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('shell', h, ['vnode'], ['user'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--execute vnode=VNODE,command=COMMAND[,user=USER]',
    'Execute a command COMMAND on VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'execute'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('execute', h, ['vnode','command'], ['user'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--copy-to vnode=VNODE,src=SRC,dest=DEST[,user=USER]', \
    'Copy the file SRC on host to DEST on VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'copy_to'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('copy-to', h, ['vnode','src','dest'], ['user'])
    options.update(sub_opts_to_hash(str))
  end
  opts.on(
    '--copy-from vnode=VNODE,src=SRC,dest=DEST[,user=USER]',
    'Copy the file SRC on VNODE to DEST on host'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'copy_from'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('copy-from', h, ['vnode','src','dest'], ['user'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--get-image vnode=VNODE,dest=FILE',
    'Get a compressed image file of the filesystem of VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'get_image'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('get-image', h, ['vnode','dest'], [])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--create-vnetwork vnetwork=VNET,address=ADDRESS',
    'Create VNET with ADDRESS (ip/mask or ip/prefix)'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'create_vnetwork'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('create-vnetwork', h, ['vnetwork','address'], [])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--remove-vnetwork [VNET]',
    'Remove VNET or all the vnetworks if VNET is not specified'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'remove_vnetwork'
    options['vnetwork'] = str if str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--create-viface vnode=VNODE,iface=IFACE[,vnetwork=VNET,address=ADDRESS]',
    'Create VIFACE on VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'create_viface'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('create-viface', h, ['vnode','iface'], ['vnetwork','address'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--remove-viface vnode=VNODE,iface=IFACE',
    'Remove VIFACE on VNODE'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'remove_viface'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('remove-viface', h, ['vnode','iface'], [])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--create-vroute vnetsrc=VNETSRC,vnetdest=VNETDEST,gateway=IP',
    'Create a route between VNETSRC et VNETDST (names) using IP as a gateway (affect all the vnodes in VNETSRC)'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'create_vroute'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('create-vroute', h, ['vnetsrc','vnetdest','gateway'], [])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--complete-vroutes',
    'Create every possible route for each vnode'
  ) do
    options['f_options'] << 'complete_vroutes'
  end
  opts.on(
    '--set-bandwidth vnode=VNODE,iface=IFACE,bw=VALUE|unlimited[,direction=INPUT|OUTPUT]',
    'Set a bandwidth limitation on IFACE with a given value and eventually a given direction'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'set_bandwidth'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('set-bandwidth', h, ['vnode','iface','bw'], ['direction'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--set-latency vnode=VNODE,iface=IFACE,latency=VALUE|unlimited[,direction=INPUT|OUTPUT|FULLDUPLEX]',
    'Set a latency limitation on IFACE with a given value and eventually a given direction'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'set_latency'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('set-latency', h, ['vnode','iface','latency'], ['direction'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--set-vcpu vnode=VNODE,corenb=NB,cpu_speed=SPEED|unlimited',
    'Set a virtual CPU on VNODE with NB cores clocked at SPEED percent'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'set_vcpu'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('set_vcpu', h, ['vnode','corenb','cpu_speed'], [])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--get-pnode-info [PNODE]',
    'Show information about PNODE if specified, or about all the physical nodes'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'get_pnode_info'
    options['pnode'] = str if str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--get-vnode-info [VNODE]',
    'Show information about VNODE if specified, or about all the virtual nodes'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'get_vnode_info'
    options['vnode'] = str if str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--get-vnetwork-info [VNET]',
    'Show information about VNET if specified, or about all the virtual networks'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'get_vnetwork_info'
    options['vnetwork'] = str if str
  end
  opts.on(
    '--save-config format=JSON|XML[,configfile=FILE]',
    'Save the virtual platform in the given format (if configfile is not specified, save to STDOUT)'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'save_config'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('save_config', h, ['format'], ['configfile'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on(
    '--load-config format=JSON|XML|SIMGRID[,configfile=FILE]',
    'Load the virtual platform from the given format(if configfile is not specified, load from STDIN)'
  ) do |str|
    options['f_options'] << 'load_config'
    h = sub_opts_to_hash(str)
    exit 1 if not check_opts('load_config', h, ['format'], ['configfile'])
    options.update(h)
  end
  opts.on('--quit', 'Close the application' ) do
    options['f_options'] << 'quit'
  end
end

begin
  optparse.parse!
rescue OptionParser::MissingArgument,OptionParser::InvalidOption => err
  puts err
  exit 1
end

unless ARGV.length == 0
  puts USAGE
  exit
end

if options['f_options'].length == 0
  puts 'Choose at least one option'
  puts USAGE
  exit 1
end

cl = Distem::NetAPI::Client.new(options['host'],options['port'])

options['f_options'].each { |option|
  case option
  when 'init_pnode'
    pp cl.pnode_init(options['pnode'])
  when 'create_vnode'
    props = {}
    props['vfilesystem'] = {}
    props['vfilesystem']['image'] = options['rootfs']
    props['host'] = options['pnode'] if options['pnode']
    pp cl.vnode_create(options['vnode'], props)
  when 'start_vnode'
    pp cl.vnode_start(options['vnode'])
  when 'stop_vnode'
    pp cl.vnode_stop(options['vnode'])
  when 'remove_vnode'
    if options['vnode']
      pp cl.vnode_remove(options['vnode'])
    else
      pp cl.vnodes_remove()
    end
  when 'shell'
    vnode = cl.vnode_info(options['vnode'])
    system("ssh -t #{options['user']}@#{vnode['host']} 'lxc-console -n #{options['vnode']}'")
  when 'execute'
    puts cl.vnode_execute(options['vnode'],options['command']).join("\n")
  when 'copy_to','copy_from'
    vnode = cl.vnode_info(options['vnode'])
    pnode = vnode['host']
    rootfs = vnode['vfilesystem']['shared'] ? 
      vnode['vfilesystem']['sharedpath'] : vnode['vfilesystem']['path']
    vfile = (option == 'copy_to') ? vfile = options['dest'] : vfile = options['src']
    path = Pathname.new(vfile)
    path = File.join(rootfs,(path.absolute? ? "" : DEFAULT_COPY_PATH),path.to_s)
    if option == 'copy_to'
      system("scp -r #{options['src']} #{options['user']}@#{pnode}:#{path}")
    else
      system("scp -r #{options['user']}@#{pnode}:#{path} #{options['dest']}")
    end
  when 'get_image'
    vnode = cl.vnode_info(options['vnode'])
    cl2 = Distem::NetAPI::Client.new(vnode['host'])
    cl2.vnode_filesystem_get(vnode['name'],options['dest'])
  when 'create_vnetwork'
    pp cl.vnetwork_create(options['vnetwork'],options['address'])
  when 'remove_vnetwork'
    if options['vnetwork']
      pp cl.vnetwork_remove(options['vnetwork'])
    else
      pp cl.vnetworks_remove()
    end
  when 'create_viface'
    pp cl.viface_create(options['vnode'], options['iface'])
    params = {}
    if options['vnetwork']
      params['vnetwork'] = options['vnetwork']
    elsif options['address']
      params['address'] = options['address']
    end
    pp cl.viface_create(options['vnode'], options['iface'],params)
  when 'remove_viface'
    pp cl.viface_remove(options['vnode'], options['iface'])
  when 'create_vroute'
    pp cl.vroute_create(options['vnetsrc'],options['vnetdest'],options['gateway'])
  when 'complete_vroutes'
    pp cl.vroute_complete()
  when 'set_bandwidth','set_latency'
    vnode = cl.vnode_info(options['vnode'])
    viface_addr = nil
    vnode['vifaces'].each { |vif|
      viface_addr = vif['address'] if vif['name'] == options['iface']
    }
    if not viface_addr
      puts 'The address of the virtual interface cannot be found'
      exit 1
    end
    plimit = {}
    tmplimit = {}
    if option == 'set_bandwidth'
      tmplimit['bandwidth'] = (options['bw'] != 'unlimited') ? { "rate" => options['bw'] } : {}
    else
      tmplimit['latency'] = (options['latency'] != 'unlimited') ? { "delay" => options['latency'] } : {}
    end
    params = {}
    if options['direction']
      params[options['direction']] = tmplimit
    else
      params['input'] = tmplimit
      params['output'] = tmplimit
    end
    pp params
    #params['address'] = viface_addr
    pp cl.viface_update(options['vnode'], options['iface'], params)
  when 'set_vcpu'
    pp cl.vcpu_create(options['vnode'], options['corenb'], options['cpu_speed'])
  when 'get_pnode_info'
    if options['pnode']
      pp cl.pnode_info(options['pnode'])
    else
      pp cl.pnodes_info()
    end
  when 'get_vnode_info'
    if options['vnode']
      pp cl.vnode_info(options['vnode'])
    else
      pp cl.vnodes_info()
    end
  when 'get_vnetwork_info'
    if options['vnetwork']
      pp cl.vnetwork_info(options['vnetwork'])
    else
      pp cl.vnetworks_info()
    end
  when 'save_config'
    ret = cl.vplatform_info(options['format'])
    if options['configfile']
      File.open(options['configfile'],'w') { |f| f.puts(ret) }
    else
      puts ret
    end
  when 'load_config'
    str = ""
    if options['configfile']
      if File.exists?(options['configfile'])
        str = File.read(options['configfile'])
      else
        puts "File '#{options['configfile']}' not found !"
        exit 1
      end
    else
      str = STDIN.read
    end
    pp cl.vplatform_create(str,options['vplatform_format'])
  when 'quit'
  else
    puts "Invalid option: #{option}"
    exit 1
  end
}
